.\" $Id: mixminionrc.5,v 1.1 2004/05/10 16:46:21 nickm Exp $
.\" Copyright (c) 2004 Nick Mathewson -- see LICENCE for licensing information
.\" "man mdoc.samples" for information on how to tag the document.
.\" Type nroff -mdoc mixminion.1 | less
.Dd March 15, 2004
.Dt MIXMINIONRC 5 Anonymity
.Os GNU/Linux
.Sh NAME
.Nm mixminionrc
.Nd Mixminion client configuration file
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Bl -tag -width Ds -compact
.It Pa $HOME/.mixminionrc
.It Pa $HOME/mixminionrc
.El
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm mixminion
reads its configuration first from the command line, then from its
configuration file, then from its built-in defaults.  To find a configuration
file, the software looks:
.Bl -enum -offset indent -compact
.It
In the configuration file specified with the command-line
.Fl f | Fl \-config
flag, if any.
.It
.Pa $HOME/.mixminionrc
.It
.Pa $HOME/mixminionrc
.El
.Pp
If
.Nm mixminion
starts with no available configuration file, it creates one in the default
location.
.Pp
The file itself is line-based, with lines grouped into sections.  Blank line
and lines beginning with '#' are treated as comments.  All section headings
and entries must appear in the first column.
.Pp
Each non-comment line is either a section header, of the format
"[SectionName]", or an entry of the format "Key: Value".  All names are
case-sensitive.  Unless otherwise noted, sections and entries may appear in
any order, but no section or entry may appear more than once.
.Pp
We describe the recognized entry keys below, grouped by section.
.Ss The [Host] Section
.Bl -tag -width ".Cm EntropySource"
.It Cm ShredCommand
A program (such as 'shred -u') used to securely delete files.
.Bq Default: use internal overwrite-and-delete functionality.
.It Cm EntropySource
A character device to provide secure random data for generating keys and
seeding the internal pseudorandom number generator.  Not used on Windows.
.Bo Default: try
.Pa /dev/random ,
.Pa /dev/srandom ,
and
.Pa /dev/random
in an appropriate order.
.Bc
.It Cm TrustedUser
The username of a user who should not trigger "file paranoia".  For example,
if
.Pa /home/
is owned by the user "system", setting "TrustedUser: system" would prevent
warnings on startup.
This option may appear more than once.
.Bq Default: none.
.It Cm FileParanoia 
Boolean: If true, check file permissions on private files and directories and
their parents.
.Bq Default: yes
.El
.Ss The [User] Section
.Bl -tag -width ".Cm EntropySource"
.It Cm UserDir
Location to store a user's queued packets, cached directories, and so on.
.Bo Default:
.Pa $HOME/.mixminion/
.Bc
.El
.Ss The [Security] Section
.Bl -tag -width ".Cm EntropySource"
.It Cm SURBAddress
Default address to use when generating SURBs without the
.Fl t
option.
.Bq Default: none
.It Cm SURBLifetime
Default lifetime for generated SURBs.
.Bq Default: 7 days
.It Cm ForwardPath
Default path to use when generating forward (non-reply, non-SURB) packets.
.Bq Default: ~5
.It Cm ReplyPath
Default path to use when generating reply packets.
.Bq Default: ~5
.It Cm SURBPath
Default path to use when generating SURBs.
.Bq Default: ~5
.It Cm BlockServers
A list of servers that should not be used when choosing random servers in
path generation.  This option may appear more than once.  This servers will
still be used if specifically requested.
.Bq Default: none
.It Cm BlockEntries
A list of servers that should not be used when choosing a random first server
in path generation.  This option may appear more than once.  This servers will
still be used if specifically requested.
.Bq Default: none
.It Cm BlockExits
A list of servers that should not be used when choosing a random last server
in path generation.  This option may appear more than once.  This servers will
still be used if specifically requested.
.Bq Default: none
.El
.Ss The [DirectoryServers] Section
.Bl -tag -width ".Cm EntropySource"
.\" .It Cm ServerURL
.\" .It Cm MaxSkew
.It Cm DirectoryTimeout
Maximum interval to wait for an answer when downloading a directory.
.Bq Default: 1 minute.
.El
.Ss The [Network] Section
.Bl -tag -width ".Cm EntropySource"
.It Cm ConnectionTimeout
Maximum length of time to wait for an answer when opening a connection to a
remote server.
.Bq Default: 2 minutes
.El
.Ss Argument Formats
.Bl -tag -width ".Cm EntropySource"
.It Boolean values
Boolean values are case-insensitive. "Yes", "y", "1", "true", and "on" are
considered true; "No", "n", "0", "false" and "off" are considered false.
.It Intervals of time
Time intervals are given as a floating-point value, and a unit.  The units
may be single or plural.  Recognized units are "second", "sec", "minute",
"min", "hour", "day", "week", "month" (30 days), "mon", and "year" (365
days).  "1.5 hour", "90 min", "90 minutes", and "5400 sec" are all the same
value.
.It Lists
Lists of servers are separated by commas.  Space is permitted, but not
required.
.It Paths
The
.Cm ForwardPath , ReplyPath ,
and
.Cm SURBPath
entries expect path specifiers.  See
.Xr mixminion 1
for information on the proper format.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLE
.Bd -literal
[Host]
# Don't try to overwrite files before removing them.
ShredCommand: rm -f
# Read entropy from /dev/urandom
EntopySource: /dev/urandom

[DirectoryServers]
DirectoryTimeout: 1 minute

[User]
# Store data in ~/share/mixminion/, instead of ~/.mixminion/
UserDir: ~/share/mixminion/

[Security]
SURBAddress: my-address@example.com
ForwardPath: ~5,FavoriteExit
ReplyPath: ~3,FavoriteExit
SURBPath: *3,FavoriteExit
BlockServers: insecure, malicious, nasty

[Network]
ConnectionTimeout: 180 seconds
.Ed
.Sh AUTHORS
See the AUTHORS section in
.Xr mixminion 1
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mixminion 1
.Xr mixminiond 8
